README.md, before:

# Description of scripts/notebooks

All Andrew's S3 data is available at `s3://realtime-buses/datasets/`. To copy both datasets to your computer, use `aws s3 cp s3://realtime-buses/datasets/* . --recursive`

Additionally, notebooks 2 and 3 reference GTFS feeds that should be downloaded from https://transitfeeds.com/p/king-county-metro/73 and unzipped to `data/source/gtfs_YYYYMMDD` folders.

- `download_raw_locations.sh`: downloads Ben's raw data for January 2018
- `01_transform_source_data.ipynb`: transforms said data into a pandas DataFrame indexed on the datetime - the output of this is available on S3 in file `positions_201801.h5`
- `02_transform_e_locations.ipynb`: selects northbound E-line vehicles and calculates `closest_stop_id` (used in future analysis) - the output of this is available on S3 in file `e_northbound_locations_2018-01.h5`
- `03_e_segment_analysis.ipynb`: transforms data into a shape that will let us calculate time between two stops for northbound E (denny/aurora and 46th/aurora), then generates histograms for the distribution those commute times

# Environment setup

In a fresh Python 3.6 env:

```
pip install pandas geopandas numpy shapely fiona six pyproj tables matplotlib tqdm
```

In more detail, assuming you have successfully installed [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/download/) on your system:

## Mac OS X

On Mac, you can set up a Python 3.6 environment using `conda`, but you need to install the above packages with `pip`.

```bash
#Create a new conda environment named `realtime-buses` with Python version 3.6 (3.7 does not work) and the ipython kernel
conda create --name realtime-buses python=3.6 ipykernel
#Activate the new environment
source activate realtime-buses
#Use pip to nstall modules needed for geopandas
pip install geopandas numpy pandas shapely fiona six pyproj tables matplotlib tqdm
#Install the kernel for the new environment (for the current user) so Jupyter will detect it
ipython kernel install --user --name realtime-buses --display-name "Python 3.6 (realtime-buses)"
#Or... not sure what the difference is:
#python -m ipykernel install --user --name realtime-buses --display-name "Python 3.6 (realtime-buses)"
```

## Windows

On Windows, it should work to install everything with `conda`. Instead of `tables`, install `pytables` (this is needed to work with `.h5` files).

```shell
#Create a new conda environment named `realtime-buses` with Python version 3.6 (3.7 does not work) and the ipython kernel
conda create --name realtime-buses python=3.6 ipykernel
#Activate the new environment
conda activate realtime-buses
#On Windows, instead of pip:
conda install geopandas numpy pandas shapely fiona six pyproj pytables matplotlib tqdm
#Install the kernel for the new environment (for the current user) so Jupyter will detect it
ipython kernel install --user --name realtime-buses --display-name "Python 3.6 (realtime-buses)"
```

Commit message:

add instructions for launching Jupyter

README.md, after:

# Description of scripts/notebooks

All Andrew's S3 data is available at `s3://realtime-buses/datasets/`. To copy both datasets to your computer, use `aws s3 cp s3://realtime-buses/datasets/* . --recursive`

Additionally, notebooks 2 and 3 reference GTFS feeds that should be downloaded from https://transitfeeds.com/p/king-county-metro/73 and unzipped to `data/source/gtfs_YYYYMMDD` folders.

- `download_raw_locations.sh`: downloads Ben's raw data for January 2018
- `01_transform_source_data.ipynb`: transforms said data into a pandas DataFrame indexed on the datetime - the output of this is available on S3 in file `positions_201801.h5`
- `02_transform_e_locations.ipynb`: selects northbound E-line vehicles and calculates `closest_stop_id` (used in future analysis) - the output of this is available on S3 in file `e_northbound_locations_2018-01.h5`
- `03_e_segment_analysis.ipynb`: transforms data into a shape that will let us calculate time between two stops for northbound E (denny/aurora and 46th/aurora), then generates histograms for the distribution those commute times

# Environment setup

In a fresh Python 3.6 env:

```
pip install pandas geopandas numpy shapely fiona six pyproj tables matplotlib tqdm
```

In more detail, assuming you have successfully installed [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/download/) on your system:

## Mac OS X

On Mac, you can set up a Python 3.6 environment using `conda`, but you need to install the above packages with `pip`.

```bash
#Create a new conda environment named `realtime-buses` with Python version 3.6 (3.7 does not work) and the ipython kernel
conda create --name realtime-buses python=3.6 ipykernel
#Activate the new environment
source activate realtime-buses
#Use pip to nstall modules needed for geopandas
pip install geopandas numpy pandas shapely fiona six pyproj tables matplotlib tqdm
#Install the kernel for the new environment (for the current user) so Jupyter will detect it
ipython kernel install --user --name realtime-buses --display-name "Python 3.6 (realtime-buses)"
#Or... not sure what the difference is:
#python -m ipykernel install --user --name realtime-buses --display-name "Python 3.6 (realtime-buses)"

#Launch Jupyter in your browser. The directory from which you type the command will be
#the top level directory in your Jupyter session, and you can navigate down from there
#if needed. Click on a .ipynb file to open it, or click the 'New' button to create
#a new notebook. You may have to explicitly select the "Python 3.6 (realtime-buses)" kernel.
jupyter notebook
```

## Windows

On Windows, it should work to install everything with `conda`. Instead of `tables`, install `pytables` (this is needed to work with `.h5` files).

```shell
#Create a new conda environment named `realtime-buses` with Python version 3.6 (3.7 does not work) and the ipython kernel
conda create --name realtime-buses python=3.6 ipykernel
#Activate the new environment
conda activate realtime-buses
#On Windows, instead of pip:
conda install geopandas numpy pandas shapely fiona six pyproj pytables matplotlib tqdm
#Install the kernel for the new environment (for the current user) so Jupyter will detect it
ipython kernel install --user --name realtime-buses --display-name "Python 3.6 (realtime-buses)"
#Launch Jupyter in your browser. The directory from which you type the command will be
#the top level directory in your Jupyter session, and you can navigate down from there
#if needed. Click on a .ipynb file to open it, or click the 'New' button to create
#a new notebook. You may have to explicitly select the "Python 3.6 (realtime-buses)" kernel.
jupyter notebook
```
